---
title: "Dynamic manifest.json"
date: "2024-04-30T12:13:14Z"
draft: false
tags: ["html", "javascript"]
slug: "dynamic-manifest"
navigation: false
competence: "elementary"
---

If you want the users of your web application to "install" it on their devices, it is enough to fill in the `manifest.json` file. It is already widely supported by the browsers and the operating systems and it is very easy to do it, so you should not skip it.

<!-- more -->

I maintain a **Vue** application that communicates with a **SaaS** system. The application is generated almost statically, without having a back-end behind it and has one entry point, but depending on the site that loads it, I save a variable in **LocaleStorage** that contains the identifier of this site. The application has a built-in `manifest.json`, but over time I had to personalize it for each site.

The dynamic loading of the `manifest.json` file should be done at the client (in the browser). We excluded **Vue & Vue Router** from the calculations, because the manifest must be available, even if their 'engines' do not work. So, we transferred everything to the `index.html` file of the application.

I wrote a small **Node** console that goes through the active databases and generates a static `manifest.siteId.json` files for each site in a specific folder. Then I added a small script to the `index.html` file that loads this file and adds it to `document.head`.

```html
<!-- index.html -->

<script>
  const siteId = localStorage.getItem("siteId");
  const manifestPath = `/manifests/manifest.${siteId || ""}.json`;

  fetch(manifestPath)
    .then(response => {
      if (!response.ok) {
        throw new Error('Network response was not ok');
      }

      return response.json();
    })
    .then(() => {
      const link = document.createElement('link');

      link.rel = "manifest";
      link.href = manifestPath;

      document.head.appendChild(link);
    })
    .catch(() => {
      const link = document.createElement('link');

      link.rel = "manifest";
      link.href = '/manifests/manifest.json';

      document.head.appendChild(link);
    });
</script>
```

## Why fetch?

This is a very good question. When generating the `manifest.siteId.json` files, there may be a situation where such a file does not exist. Since **JavaScript** cannot check for a file on the server - I make a **fetch** request for it. If the request does not work, then I load the `manifest.json` file with the basic descriptions.

---

::comments
---
discussions: https://github.com/howbizarre/thoughts/discussions/11
---
::
